# zufall-am-computer
###### *coded and written by Alexander Wiltz, 2021*

#### Implementation and simulation of a Bingo-Ball 75 game as part of a study project for the module stochastics for computer scientists

### Entry
As part of a study project, I have written a code to play bingo in a very simple version.
The Bingo.java creates a multidimensional matrix with 5x5 fields as an 2D-array, generate 25 pseudo-random numbers with a mersenne-twister (seed: 2^19937 -1), set them in a hashset to be unique between the array, generate 5 more numbers with the same periodity in antoher hashset as the "conférencier" and compare the arrays.
If there are the 5 numbers equal to five numbers in the cardset, the code try to find if the numbers are in a row, a colum or diagonal.
When they are, the code throws a "BINGO"

### Statics
The Bingo-Code is also ready to analyze the game. It write out where the win was, how many numbers are equal to the drawn numbers and throw a win-boolean.

### Simulation-Class
There is also a CSimulator-Class to play the game automatically and take the information about the last situation. At the end of the iteration, there are methods to build a summary of all things like, equality-counter, wins, row-wins, column-wins, diagonal-wins and the sum of all games.
There is a method to export the values in a csv via ICSVFileWriter which uses the OPEN-CSV Lib.

### License
The code is for free-use only, not for commercial use!
All rights reserved!

### Sources
All used sources, documents and code-examples are placed in the whitepaper.

### Sheets
The csv-Sheets are generated by the CSimulator-Class and are part of the paper.

### Links
[OpenCSV Example by mykong.com](https://mkyong.com/java/how-to-export-data-to-csv-file-java/)

[OpenCSV Maven Repository](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/com.opencsv/opencsv)

[Apache Commons Repository (MersenneTwister)](http://commons.apache.org/proper/commons-math/download_math.cgi)

[Doc of JAVA random-Class](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/Random.html)

[Doc of JAVA MersenneTwister-Class](https://commons.apache.org/proper/commons-math/javadocs/api-3.3/org/apache/commons/math3/random/MersenneTwister.html)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Have a nice day

Alex
